# The Game

My phone buzzed just as the clerk rang up a bottle of milk. "Queen to the hidey hole," the text message read. That was all.

I frowned at the screen, looking back at the last several messages as though that would help. Hidey hole? What could she have meant by that?

The clerk wasn't the least bit amused; there was a long line of customers behind me, including the woman I had snuck in front of earlier. "Won't take but a moment!" I had claimed with false cheer, brandishing a bottle of 2%. She had scowled back at me over a cart full of sugary cereals and a reservoir's worth of orange juice, but waved me in.

Of course, there was no way for me to have known that I"d receive the latest move in a long-running game just at the moment that payment was due to the surly grocery clerk. This particular game was perhaps a dozen years old, maybe more. Thirty or so moves had transpired, back and forth, spaced out sporadically over weeks and in some cases many months. 

It was impossible to say when the next move would come, or why. There were days when I'd think of nothing but the game, and I'd puzzle over the next move until at last, just before bed, the perfect strategem would come to me, and there was my next move, ready to dispatch without a moment's notice. Then on the other hand, entire seasons would pass me by as I'd forget about the board altogether, its drama hidden underneath a hundred other concerns, big and small. Until one day, without notice, inspiration would arrive from an unlikely source - a dog cavorting in the park, rain pitter-pattering into an old ceramic pitcher along the side of the house, an email alerting me to a a new statement available online from my bank. In any case it would rouse some idle thought and without fail, a few days later I'd parry back with something clever, a piece sliding across the board into an unlikely spot.

My opponent must have been on a similar cycle, though really I could only guess. There was no particular pattern to the way her pieces moved, or when she sent her text messages. Certainly, it was impossible to guess what she was thinking. I suppose it always is, but with some players it's easier to guess than with others. She was a perfect conundrum on the game board. My sister always had been.

Now my moment in line was stretching into something rather longer than that. "Cash or credit?" the clerk asked. She set her jaw with a particular disdain, her teeth clenched with tension sufficient to say something like, "...or could I interest you in a hole in the ground?"

With dread I realized that I had left my wallet at home; neither cash nor credit were anywhere nearby. I fidgeted with my phone and pulled up the payments app. Up popped a QR code, which I dutifully offered up in supplication. "Neither, I guess?" This last bit with a chuckle. The clerk didn't seem to find it very funny.

It only took a dozen or so attempts with the wonky scanner, and a bit more forbearance on the part of my fellow customers as I finished setting up the payments app, but eventually we figured it out. It was a true team effort, a shining example of capitalism at its finest. The grocery store was $3.49 richer, and I had something to stir into the next morning's coffee. As well, perhaps, as a healthy dose of new enemies.

The game had started without a great deal of ceremony. The first text message was rather prosaic. "Pawn to king 4," my sister wrote me, on an otherwise lazy Saturday afternoon when I was just starting to consider the problem of dinner.

I wasn't quite sure what to think. It had been years since I had laid eyes on so much as a rook or a bishop. After puzzling over it for a moment I recognized the text as a bit of jargon, what my sister called "algebraic notation." It the sort of thing that was really the province of experienced players more than novices such as myself. King's four - that was four rows in front of the King. Since my sister had moved first she was moving a white pawn. There was only one white pawn - the King's pawn - which could move into that particular spot, forward two spaces from its starting position. Actually it was a very pedestrian move, the kind of opening I would use back when I was a kid and my sister managed to cajole me into a game when I had nothing better to do.

Not that I had the slightest idea why my sister chose to send me a fairly humdrum opening at this exact uninteresting moment in time. Only that I was by now fairly accustomed to these conversational non-sequitors, enough that I knew better to respond to her enigmatic message with a question mark or five.

Every conversation with her began in just about this  way. She would want to talk about something with me. But first she'd think it over for a day or two, develop a few ideas, consider counter-arguments, come to a conclusion. Only then would I hear from her, usually with a question about her conclusion that belied very little of the original thought. It was my job to catch up as best I could.

A month before my twenty-fifth birthday, I got a call with this question: "Argyle or flannel?" At the time I was lugging a tower of mulch down the garden path, one soggy bag at a time. It was a hot day and I hadn't had enough to drink, so I responded without much thought. Flannel, I said, and foolishly asked what it was about, and how was she doing, and had she talked to mom lately - only to realize that the call had ended as soon as she'd received her answer. Sure enough, a few weeks later I opened my mailbox to find it stuffed with twenty-five flannel socks. They were impossibly cozy, to her credit. I still have three or four pairs floating around somewhere.

So her out-of-nowhere text about an opening move was a little confusing - but only a little. I don't remember how I responded to that text. It was a dozen years ago, and whichever phone I had at the time has long since vanished. Very probably, I forgot all about it once I had decoded its arcane meaning... only to encounter it again the next time I had to get in touch with my sister, and respond with something uninspiring, along the lines of "same move for me, I guess."

The game proceeded that way for a while, in fits and starts, my sister's algebraic notation answered by a string of decidedly mediocre moves on my part. At some point along the way I realized that her pretentiously notated moves were actually specific and efficient, and I learned to notate mine in turn. Not that it made much of a difference in the quality of my game. "Knight to queen's rook three," I'd text her, after a particularly inspired bit of very focused, strategic thinking, only to have that same knight captured in her next turn, a few months later.

It was she who abandoned the jargon in the first place. Again I can't remember exactly when. I think it began as a cutesy line. Her knight had to return to its original spot on the first row to accommodate a rather clever attack on my own. "Horsey hops home," she wrote. It was a couple of days before I realized she was referring to our game, and then a full week before I realized what she meant by it. At some point I realized that she also meant it as a reminder of the great big golden lab we had when we were kids, who earned the name Horsey by gamely giving us rides around the living room.

Horsey was just one in a long line of pets who managed to survive in a household with the two of us through the years. There were Salt and Pepper - the former was a gray kitten, and the latter was white, because that was my sister's sense of humor at the time. Next came Doctor the turtle, Colonel the goldfish, Brother the rat (my sister, ever the comedian), and Abe the iguana. Briefly we discussed getting a zebra just to bring the menagerie to its logical conclusion, but fate intervened in the form of a long-lost cousin headed overseas. Could we care for his beloved parakeet? We could, and after one look at her silky coat, a resplendent arrangement of every color imaginable, we could name her nothing besides Rainbow. There was a foster cat who seemed to bat at every ball that came his way with his right paw; he was destined to be Southpaw. A pair of puppies we were allowed to keep on the strength of a solemn promise to feed them - and who wound up returned to their owner about a month later when their bowls were found empty a few times too many - were Monkey and Curious, though we could never tell which was which. The last in this long line was a snake, obtained during the mildly sadistic years when I enjoyed the thought of watching the creature attack and devour a mouse. I named it Spot because I thought it was funny; my sister grudgingly agreed.

Many of these pets have made their way into our game in one way or the other, even though they're all long gone. For a turn or two, as I recall, the white queen's rook was named Colonel, for instance. When I castled my King, sliding it over to the right side of the board, I wrote something impossibly terse, like "Southpaw's hold." It must have driven my sister nuts.

These sort of inscrutable references or witty jokes - or better still, both at the same time - are pretty much the only way we talk about the game these days. Indeed, it's become the whole point of the enterprise, it seems to me. We've long since abandoned the pretense that the point of the game is to capture the other player's king. Instead, it's to impress the other player with a clever turn of phrase. Certainly, there is no reason the game should have gone on this long. My sister is a far better player than I - has been since before she was old enough to own a set - and she could have won hundreds of games against me in the time it's taken us to play this particularly meandering and never-ending game.

It's her way of checking up on me, the way some people like to send each other links to news articles. There's something sweet, if perhaps a little condescending, in it. On the one hand she puts a lot of thought in the game, even though it's not a lot of words. On the other, I'm playing by her rules in every possible way, and that's always been a bit uncomfortable. 

Has it turned out the way she intended, back when we were both twelve years younger? That much I couldn't say for certain. She is nothing if not cunning and annoyingly insightful, the kind of person who could tell you - and often does - how a movie's going to end before the opening credits have finished rolling. But then again, she takes her games very seriously, and it's not entirely like her to make light of them; still less so to let others do the same. We've been doing precisely that for over half of our adult lives now.

But I don't mind it. In fact I rather enjoy making enemies at the grocery store in exchange for these unpredictable bits of sisterly repartee. I'm not eager to inconvenience others, but if I'm going to do so anyway, there might as well be a memorable story in the bargain. Probably I should steer away from that particular clerk the next time I need a basket of vitals.

***

My chess board sits on a table in a loft that overlooks my kitchen. There's a rickety little ladder that stretches from the fridge up to the loft. Over the years this place has earned the name "struggle spot" - because that's the only reason I go up there, to struggle over the next move in the game with my sister. It's altogether a rather pleasant little nook, despite the name. There's a window overlooking the garden which receives rather excellent light well into the early evening, and an overstuffed armchair which serves as an unnaturally comfortable perch for watching a good thunderstorm. You might ask: how did I get an overstuffed armchair up a rickety little ladder? I would answer: with enough struggle to make this little spot doubly worthy of its name.

That's where I repaired once I returned home. Carefully I balanced a mug of tea in one hand while climbing with the other, managing to get scalded only once or twice as I ascended. I find peppermint ideal for an afternoon in the struggle spot; it has just enough of a kick to get the gears turning.

I stood over the board while taking little sips of peppermint. *Queen to the hidey hole* the message had read, and as these things go it was somewhat straightforward. There was my sister's queen, deep in enemy territory on the king's side of the board. Where was the hidey hole? It must have been a safe spot. For some reason my sister wanted to call her queen back; perhaps it was a tactical retreat.

That, in any event, was very probably a correct reading of the message. I couldn't be absolutely certain that the position of the queen on my board matched the position of the queen on my sister's board. After all, we were hardly exchanging a precise series of moves. Every time my sister texted me, I had to guess where she wanted to go, and sometimes I had to guess which piece she wanted to move. And she had to do the same with my texts. Every now and then I had a pretty clear idea of what she wanted, but that was certainly the exception rather than the rule. It would be something of a miracle if she and I were actually playing with the same arrangement of pieces.

There were a few spots on the board which seemed like they might qualify as safe spaces for the queen. One of them was a spot right in the middle of the pawns' row, directly in front of the king's starting position - that seemed like the most likely place, it was fairly well-protected and not particularly threatened by any of my pieces. A diagonal slide across the board would do the trick. Perhaps.

I took my mug of tea over to the easy chair, and settled it precariously on the arm. One of these days I should really get a side table. I've been meaning to for years and years now, but I manage to forget the idea quite easily. My poor armchair has suffered its share of spills, and chances are it'll suffer more than a few more.

Relaxing into an overstuffed armchair is a unique kind of pleasure, all the more so when as dusk starts to settle in outside one's window. A blue jay sat on a branch outside my window, turned its head to the side, and regarded me with curiosity. *What*, it seemed to ask, *are you doing there?* I wanted to ask the same question, but it darted off in search of a bug or a worm somewhere. I watched it go lazily, hoping that my mind would wander off alongside it. Struggling with a game of chess is actually quite a bit more calming than it sounds - there is an awful lot of day-dreaming and idle, unfocused contemplation involved. That is one of the things I enjoy most about this odd sport I share with my sister, that it gives me an excuse to drift off. It's a kind of gift that she's given me, though I doubt that was the intention.

I woke up a couple of hours later, just about starving. It was only then that I realized I had forgotten to pick up anything for dinner at the store - as I had originally intended when I left the house in the first place. Scrounging around the cupboards, I found a few odds and ends that looked like respectable candidates for a slapdash dinner.

It's not much of an exaggeration to say that cooking is an art form whose goal is to turn a pile of odds and ends, gathered from about the kitchen, into something resembling nutrition. There are some well-known tricks to make that happen. For breakfast: take said odds and ends, mix them together with eggs and cheese, and presto - an omelet is born. For dinner: take the same odds and ends, add some herbs, boil them in broth, maybe add some sauce - your soup is ready. For a mild variation, ratchet down the broth and you have a curry, ready-made for accompaniment with a grain of your choosing. Many people like to collect cookbooks, and to consult them with great care. I've always thought, what's the use of that? All of those recipes are really just permutations of each other. Armed with this attitude, one can have some remarkably entertaining dinner parties.

These days my grain of choice is barley, and fortunately I had just enough of it to accompany a radish, celery, and cauliflower curry. I've always wondered why barley seems to be such an under-appreciated grain; it's rare if not impossible to find it as a side dish on any menu. When it comes to starches, rice and quinoa seem to be the favorites these days. Even couscous has more adherents somehow! For myself, I much prefer barley's bold, nutty taste alongside its assertive texture. Other grains pale in comparison. But I suppose it's difficult to live life on the sidelines.

Ruminations on barley, it turns out, can be very helpful in one's chess game.

As I wrapped up dinner and started clearing away the dishes, I remembered why that phrase, "hidey hole", sounded as familiar as it had. It was a phrase I remembered from a boring summer afternoon. I must have been ten or eleven, and we had decided to while away the time to dinner by producing a play in the backyard. She wanted our play to be the story of Jack and the Beanstalk, but I convinced her to use Hansel and Gretel instead - it would give us an excuse to sneak candy from the kitchen, I said.

Our production that night landed a fairly small audience - our parents, our puppies Monkey and Curious, some of the kids from next door who had heard the ruckus and jumped the fence. I'm quite sure we forgot our lines more often than not. The gingerbread house, which was made of cardboard boxes rescued from the basement, fell apart at the slightest breeze. But my sister loved every minute of it, and especially relished her role as the evil witch; she had a marvelous cackle and a spectacular death scene at the end.

Afterwards, we celebrated our triumph over ice cream sundaes with sprinkles on top. It was fun being Hansel, I told her; he's a good boy and the hero of the story, isn't he? And what was so great about being an evil witch, after all?

"Pretending to be evil is way more fun," my sister had said, licking a stray dab of chocolate sauce off her spoon. "You get to be a totally different person. That's what makes center stage the best hidey-hole there is. The sideline is way more boring."

The hidey hole could not have been that spot in the pawn's row - that was pretty obvious. But where could it be?

The problem with a loft that's only accessible by ladder is that it's only accessible by ladder. It was getting late and I just didn't have it in me to climb up there again. Instead I slouched off to bed, my mind flitting back to the chess board - as well as I could remember it - while brushing my teeth.

The next few days turned out to be pretty busy, and after that we got a nasty storm that wrecked my garden. I didn't have any time for hidey holes for another couple of weeks. Eventually I forgot about the game altogether.

It was a stroke of luck that brought me back to the game, and an unexpected one at that. One day I discovered a strange package on my doorstep; return address unrecognizable. Inside was a lovely little succulent, a thank-you present intended for someone I'd never met before. I looked at the label on the package more closely. Right street address, completely wrong city. Apparently I had a doppelganger somewhere, hundreds of miles away - and that person was probably feeling entirely unappreciated at the moment. I called the florist to report the mistake; they told me to keep the package and they'd send out another one.

My lucky succulent needed a nice perch where it could get some light and remain mostly forgotten; immediately I decided it deserved a home in my struggle spot. So, up the ladder I went, for the first time since that day at the grocery store.

After installing the plant in a little nook on the windowsill, I took another glance at the chess set. *Queen to the hidey hole*, I remembered. I double-checked my phone just to be sure I had remembered the message correctly.

Certainly my sister expected the queen to move to the middle of the board - center stage, as she had put it years ago. The problem was, a move like that would be impossible. Several of her own pieces blocked the way, and I couldn't find any reasonable path for her queen to get there. Had she made a mistake? Or was I misreading her text altogether?

I walked around the board to consider it from what would be her position. Her king remained safely castled to the right; I had captured one rook and one bishop, leaving two knights and the remaining bishop to dominate the center of the board. The queen's pawn remained in its original spot, as though it had been forgotten at the beginning of the game.

There was something interesting about that pawn; it was the only piece in its column. Left undisturbed - over the course of a long series of moves - it could march straight to the last row in my defensive ranks. If that happened, my sister would earn a second queen - it's a move called "pawn promotion". The first step would be to move the pawn two steps forward, toward center stage. In other words, my sister wanted to bring a future queen to the "hidey-hole" of the middle of the board.

Could that be what she wanted? I placed the tip of my finger on the pawn, then clutched it in my fist for a minute, feeling its weight. This chess set was another birthday gift from my sister. "Solid mahogany pieces, lined with felt to protect a board made of cherry," she had written in the card. "Tell me you don't love the way one of these pawns sits in the palm of your hand." She was right, the pieces each had a beautiful weight, a heft that felt solid, sometimes alive.

I placed the piece back on the board, slid it forward two spaces to see if it felt right. There she stood, my sister's future queen, marching toward her destiny.

But how should I respond? I pulled out my phone, re-examined the text, my fingers hovering over the keypad as though I knew what to do next.

***